Malware is developed as harmful software that invades or corrupts a computer network. The goal of malware is to cause havoc and steal information or resources for monetary gain or sheer sabotage intent. 
> Intelligence and intrusion: exfiltrates data such as emails, plans, and especially sensitive information like passwords.
> Disruption and extortion: locks up networks and computers, making them unusable. If it holds a computer hostage for financial gain, it's called ransomware.

Types of Malware
> Ransomware: disables victim's access to data until ransom is paid.
> Fileless Malware: makes changes to files that are native to the operating system.
> Spyware: collects user activity data without their knowledge.
> Adware: serves unwanted advertisements. 
> Trojans: disguises itself as desirable code. 
> Worms: spreads through a network by replicating itself.
> Viruses: code that infects an application and executes when that app is running.
> Rootkits: gives hackers remote control of a victim's device.
> Keyloggers: monitors users' keystrokes.
> Bots/Botnets: launches a broad flood of attacks.
> Mobile Malware: infects mobile devices.
> Wiper Malware: erases user data beyond recoverability.

Types of Malware Expanded
> Ransomware is software that uses encryption to disable a target's access to its data until a ransom is paid. The victim organization is rendered partially or totally unable to operate or inaccessible until it pays, but there is no guarantee that payment will result in the necessary decryption key or that the decryption key provided will function properly.
- RobbinHood is the name of a type of ransomware that targeted the city of Baltimore. It halted all city activities, including tax collection, property transfers, and government emails for weeks. This attack has cost the city more than $18 million so far. The same type of malware was used against the city of Atlanta in 2018, resulting in costs of $17 million.
> Fileless malware doesn't install anything initially, instead, it makes changes to files that are native to the operating system, such as PowerShell or WMI (Windows Management Instrumentation). Since the operating system recognizes the edited files as legitimate, a fileless attack is not caught by antivirus software -- and because these attacks are stealthy, they are up to ten times more successful than traditional malware attacks.
- Astaroth is a fileless malware campaign that spammed users with links to a .LNK shortcut file. When users downloaded the file, a WMIC (Windows Management Instrumentation Command-line) tool was launched, along with numerous other legitimate Windows tools. These tools downloaded additional code that was executed only in memory, leaving no evidence that could be detected by vulnerability scanners. Then the attacker downloaded and ran a Trojan that stole credentials and uploaded them to a remote server. 
*The WMI command-line utility provides a command-line interface for WMI. WMIC is compatible with existing shells and utility commands. 
> Spyware collects information about users' activities without their knowledge or consent. The information collected includes passwords, pins, payment information and unstructured messages. The use of spyware is not limited to the desktop browser. It can also operate in an application or on a mobile phone.
- DarkHotel targets businesses and government leaders using hotel WIFI. It used several types of malware to gain access to the systems belonging to specific powerful leaders. Once that access was gained, the attackers installed keyloggers to capture their targets passwords and other sensitive information. 
> Adware tracks a user's Internet surfing activity to determine which ads to serve them. Although similar to spyware, it does not install any software on a user's computer, nor does it capture keystrokes. The danger in adware is the erosion of a user's privacy -- the data captured, overtly or covertly, by adware is collated about the user's activity on the Internet and used to create a profile of that person which includes their purchase history, travel history, friend list, and more. That information can be shared or sold to advertisers without the user's consent. 
- Fireball infected 250 million computers and devices in 2017, hijacking browsers to change default search engines and track web activity. However, the malware became more of a problem. Three-quarters of it was able to run code remotely and download malicious files. 
> A Trojan disguises itself as desirable code or software. Once downloaded by unsuspecting users, the Trojan can take control of victims' systems for malicious purposes. Trojans may hide in games, applications, software patches, or can be embedded in attachments included in phishing emails.
- Emotet is a sophisticated banking trojan that has been around since 2014. It's difficult to protect computer systems from trojans because they evade signature-based detection, are persistent, and include spreader modules that help them propagate. Emotet is so widespread that it is the subject of a US Department of Homeland Security alert, which notes that Emotet has cost state, local, tribal, and territorial governments up to $1 million per incident to remediate.
> Worms target vulnerabilities in operating systems to install themselves into computer networks. They may gain access in several ways: through backdoors built into software, through unintentional software vulnerabilites, or through flash drives. Once the system is compromised, worms can be used by attackers to launch DDoS attacks, steal sensitive data, or conduct ransomware attacks.
- The US and Israeli intelligence forces probably developed Stuxnet with the intent of setting back Iran's nuclear program. It was introduced into Iran's environment through a flash drive. With Iran's environment being air-gapped, its developers never thought Stuxnet would escape its target's network -- but it did. Stuxnet spread aggressively but did little damage, since its only function was to interfere with industrial controllers that managed the uranium enrichment process. 
> A virus is a piece of code that inserts itself into an application and executes when the app is running. Once inside a network, a virus may be used to steal sensitive data, launch DDoS attacks or conduct ransomware attacks.
*A virus cannot execute or reproduce unless the application it has infected is running. This host dependency makes viruses different from trojans, which require users to download them, and worms, which do not depend on a host to execute. Many instances of malware fit into multiple categories. For example, Stuxnet is a worm, a virus, and a rootkit.
> A rootkit is software that gives attackers remote control of a victim's computer with full administrative privileges. Rootkits can be injected into applications, kernels, hypervisors, or firmware. They spread through phishing, compromised shared drivers, malicious attachments and downloads. They can also be used to conceal other malware, such as keyloggers. 
- Zacinlo infects systems when users download a fake VPN app. Once installed, it conducts a security sweep for computing malware and tries to remove it. Then it opens invisible browsers and interacts with content like a human would -- by scrolling, highlighting and clicking. This activity is meant to fool behavioral analysis software. Zacinlo's payload occurs when the malware clicks on ads in the invisible browser. This fraudulent advertising click provides attackers with a cut of the commission.
> A keylogger is a type of spyware that monitors user activity. Keyloggers have legitimate uses; businesses can use them to monitor employee activity and families can use them to keep track of children's online behaviors. However, keyloggers are commonly used for malicious purposes, such as to steal password data, banking information and other sensitive information. Keyloggers can be inserted into a system through phishing, social engineering or malicious downloads. 
- Olympic Vision has been used to target US, Middle Eastern and Asian businessmen for business email compromise (BEC) attacks. It uses spear-phishing and social engineering techniques to infect its targets' systems to steal sensitive data and spy on business transactions. The keylogger is not sophisticated, but it's available on the black market for $25, making it highly accessible to hackers. 
> A bot is a software application that performs automated tasks on command.